bicep/README.md, before:

# Project Vico Infrastructure

## Overview
![Project Vico Infrastructure diagram](documentation/project_vico_infrastructure_public.png)

__Note:__ What is greyed out is not yet deployed and/or correctly implemented.

## Prerequisites

## Deployment options

### Local deployment with user account and deployment stacks __(Preview)__
```bash
az login
az stack sub create --name 'vico-stack' --location '<region>' --template-file 'main.bicep' --deployment-resource-group '<resource_group_name>' --deny-settings-mode 'none' --parameters main.bicepparam
```
### Deploy applications with VS
Follow instructions here after opening the relevant .sln project files: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/deploy-with-vs?tabs=vs156.

### Github Actions
#### Deploy infrastructure and applications
Deployment process:
- Create a service principal with owner role on target resource group which is contained in a openai GPT3.5 whitelisted subscription.
- Create Github secrets with the service principal credentials (AZURE_CREDENTIALS), the subscription ID (AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID), and the resource group name (AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP).
- Run deploy-all github action.

Commit message:

Various changes to bicep (#115)
* Bicep parameter update for test deployment
* Updated allowed webapp regions
* Updated docs with how to create service principal AZURE_CREDENTIALS
* Readme updates for bicep/deployment
* Moved resource location to sweden central
* Removed Static Web App from bicep for now
* Added support for completion and embedding model version
* Removed 'global' region for Azure Maps - not allowed. Default is now 'eastus'
* Set unique name manually (at least temporarily)
* Updated azure ACS backup and restore mechanism to use an older API to maintain data compatibility
* Small fixes to main.bicep
* Cleaned up main.bicepparam for reintegration into main branch
* Updated default plugin timeout and set it to 500 seconds

bicep/README.md, after:

# Project Vico Infrastructure

## Overview

![Project Vico Infrastructure diagram](documentation/project_vico_infrastructure_public.png)

**Note:** What is greyed out is not yet deployed and/or correctly implemented.

## Prerequisites

## Deployment options

### Local deployment with user account and deployment stacks **(Preview)**

```bash
az login
az stack sub create --name 'vico-stack' --location '<region>' --template-file 'main.bicep' --deployment-resource-group '<resource_group_name>' --deny-settings-mode 'none' --parameters main.bicepparam
```

### Deploy applications with VS

Follow instructions here after opening the relevant .sln project files: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/deploying/deploy-with-vs?tabs=vs156.

### Github Actions

#### Deploy infrastructure and applications

Deployment process:

- Precreate the designated Azure Resource Group. Resource Group must be contained in an Azure subscription which has been whitelisted for Azure OpenAI Service.
- Create a service principal (App Registration)
- Create Github secrets with the service principal credentials (AZURE_CREDENTIALS), the subscription ID (AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID), and the resource group name (AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP).
  - For AZURE_CREDENTIALS, use the following command to generate the JSON string:
  ```bash
  az ad sp create-for-rbac
          --name "<service principal name>"
          --scopes "/subscriptions/<subscriptionId/resourceGroups/<resource group name>"
          --role owner
  ```
- Run deploy-all github action.
